# Symbols-Classifier
For ABU Robocon 2026

Problem statement


For the ABU Robocon 2026, we need a code that will identify the input of the camera and classify it into three: Robocon logo, Oracle bone symbols and Random or Fake symbols. To do this, i have utilised cnn.


Project report


I have tried and used tensorflow, keras, mobilenet, numpy, skimage, onnx, onnxruntime, opencv, matplotlib, torch, yolo and os packages in this journey. Initially, I wrote a code in which the training and deployment was happening in the same code file. I converted all the images to grayscale so that output was good and updated the data files so as to impove predictions. The accuracy is good for robocon logo and oracle bone but poor for random symbols. No model was being exported and loaded. However, this is not very useful for our purpose as we dont want to waste the processing power on training the model when it is possible to train it first and then only use the obtained model. I tried to achieve training and predictions in different code files. However, the major problem I faced was that my code was written in keras. I tried to save the model in keras and then convert it to onnx. However, since I used Imagenet as the intial base, while saving the keras model, it saved 1000 classes which are also reflected when I try to load the onnx model and run it. 
I read the docs of mobilenet, keras, torchvision, tensorflow and onnx and information given by google and microsoft, several blogs, searched stack overflow and reddit, searched in ML for dummies and Deep Learning (Goodfellow), watched videos on opencv and image classification. However, I still havent found the solution. It is possible to save the classes in a separate file for the keras model and then use it to only get one of three outputs. This will work if I use the keras model. However, I am unsure of how that will translate in the onnx model. 

None of the code submitted here has been generated by an AI. 


Things to work on


try data augmentation
try to give less robocon images and make it decide more between real and fake symbols
improve accuracy of classification of fake symbols.
try image processing to boost output
try to make it work with onnx and keras saved models
give confidence score


To deploy


Create a folder
Download the zip file containing the data on which the model is trained in that folder. Extract the data.
Download the code in the same folder
Download tensorflow, opencv, numpy, skimage, keras
Run it

I am also attaching the inference script that should work with an onnx model which i will use once i have figured out the issues. The keras model contains the 1000 classes. The onnx model contains 1000 classes
